1. Articles describing the use of certificates, biometrics, and other forms of information as digital identifiers and associated challenges and benefits[mijnheer@gmail.com](mailto:mijnheer@gmail.com) will send a sample use case article to [George Dobbs](mailto:gdobbs@idpro.org) for consideration and feedback
2. Articles on Privilege Management – Classes of tools, common patterns, cloud vs on-prem vs hybrid, etc*.* We need to start with an introduction to what privilege management is; everything is a privilege. Privilege is a synonym for access. Are there any accesses that are more sensitive? You need to actually know your levels of risk for your levels of access. Difference governance models will be required for the different levels. This sometimes overlaps with Access Management, and sometimes with Identity Management. Classical privilege management can be covered in an IGA because it helps manage risk-based access decision at run time. 
3. Articles on the considerations regarding Proofing, Binding, and Registration of digital identity
4. Articles on IAM-related security essentials (such as encryption details related to identity systems, canonicalization, high-level threat modeling, social engineering, and impersonation)
5. Even more articles on IAM-related security details (including common exploitations related to digital identity, IAMs vulnerabilities, Secret Storage best practices, etc.)
6. Articles on different common IAM architectures, specifically on-premise, hybrid, or cloud-based identity architecture, and the pros and cons of each
7. Articles that describe when and where federated identity management is appropriate. (This one would probably be easiest to break down if that question is answered for the different sectors. E-Government identity federation has different pros and cons than enterprise, which is different again from academia)