\hypertarget{introduction}{%
\chapter{Introduction}\label{introduction}}

\hypertarget{information-security}{%
\section{Information security}\label{information-security}}

\hypertarget{trust-say-more---what-is-this}{%
\subsection{Trust (say more - what is
this?)}\label{trust-say-more---what-is-this}}

\hypertarget{privacy}{%
\section{Privacy}\label{privacy}}

\hypertarget{identification-and-authentication}{%
\section{Identification and
authentication}\label{identification-and-authentication}}

\hypertarget{context-and-identity}{%
\subsection{Context and Identity}\label{context-and-identity}}

\hypertarget{levels-of-assurance}{%
\subsection{Levels of Assurance}\label{levels-of-assurance}}

\hypertarget{the-business-case-for-iam}{%
\section{The Business Case for IAM}\label{the-business-case-for-iam}}

\hypertarget{workforce-iam}{%
\subsection{Workforce IAM}\label{workforce-iam}}

\hypertarget{consumercitizen-iam}{%
\subsection{Consumer/Citizen IAM}\label{consumercitizen-iam}}

\hypertarget{digital-identity}{%
\chapter{Digital Identity}\label{digital-identity}}

\hypertarget{definition}{%
\section{Definition}\label{definition}}

\hypertarget{reputation}{%
\subsection{Reputation}\label{reputation}}

\hypertarget{laws-of-identity---this-sounds-like-jurisdictions-and-real-laws---is-that-the-intent}{%
\subsection{Laws of Identity - this sounds like jurisdictions and
real laws - is that the
intent?}\label{laws-of-identity---this-sounds-like-jurisdictions-and-real-laws---is-that-the-intent}}

\hypertarget{identifiers}{%
\section{Identifiers}\label{identifiers}}

\hypertarget{digital-identity-lifecycle}{%
\section{Digital Identity Lifecycle
?}\label{digital-identity-lifecycle}}

\hypertarget{mapping-to-human-or-device}{%
\section{Mapping to human or
device}\label{mapping-to-human-or-device}}

\hypertarget{proofing-binding-or-registration}{%
\section{Proofing , Binding or
Registration?}\label{proofing-binding-or-registration}}

\hypertarget{verificationvalidation}{%
\subsection{verification/validation}\label{verificationvalidation}}

\hypertarget{credentials}{%
\section{Credentials}\label{credentials}}

\hypertarget{access-control}{%
\chapter{Access Control}\label{access-control}}

\hypertarget{authentication}{%
\section{Authentication}\label{authentication}}

\hypertarget{dynamic-authentication-risk-based}{%
\subsection{Dynamic Authentication
(risk-based)}\label{dynamic-authentication-risk-based}}

\hypertarget{multi-factor-authentication}{%
\subsection{Multi-Factor
Authentication}\label{multi-factor-authentication}}

\hypertarget{single-sign-on-within-a-domain}{%
\subsection{Single Sign-on within a
domain}\label{single-sign-on-within-a-domain}}

\hypertarget{centralised-authentication-service}{%
\subsection{Centralised authentication
service}\label{centralised-authentication-service}}

\hypertarget{federated-authentication-between-domains}{%
\subsection{Federated Authentication (between
domains)}\label{federated-authentication-between-domains}}

\hypertarget{device-identity-for-corroboration}{%
\subsection{Device identity for
corroboration}\label{device-identity-for-corroboration}}

\hypertarget{fast-identity-online-fido-and-its-cousins}{%
\subsection{Fast Identity Online (FIDO) and its
cousins}\label{fast-identity-online-fido-and-its-cousins}}

\hypertarget{session-management}{%
\subsection{Session Management}\label{session-management}}

\hypertarget{authorization}{%
\section{Authorization}\label{authorization}}

\hypertarget{resources-to-protect}{%
\subsection{Resources to protect}\label{resources-to-protect}}

\hypertarget{authorisation}{%
\subsection{Authorisation}\label{authorisation}}

\hypertarget{acls}{%
\subsubsection{ACL's}\label{acls}}

\hypertarget{rbac}{%
\subsubsection{RBAC}\label{rbac}}

\hypertarget{abac-dynamic-access-management}{%
\subsubsection{ABAC / dynamic access
management}\label{abac-dynamic-access-management}}

\hypertarget{policy-management-solutions}{%
\paragraph{Policy Management
solutions}\label{policy-management-solutions}}

\hypertarget{privileged-access-management}{%
\subsection{Privileged Access
Management}\label{privileged-access-management}}

\hypertarget{alignment-to-risk-management}{%
\subsubsection{Alignment to Risk
Management}\label{alignment-to-risk-management}}

\hypertarget{regulations-and-laws}{%
\chapter{Regulations And Laws}\label{regulations-and-laws}}

\hypertarget{privacy-generic}{%
\section{Privacy (generic)}\label{privacy-generic}}

\hypertarget{survey-of-jurisdictions}{%
\section{Survey of Jurisdictions}\label{survey-of-jurisdictions}}

\hypertarget{sox-hipaa-gdpr-cbpr-etc.}{%
\subsection{SOX, HIPAA, GDPR, CBPR
etc.}\label{sox-hipaa-gdpr-cbpr-etc.}}

\hypertarget{consent-management}{%
\section{Consent management}\label{consent-management}}

\hypertarget{workforce-iam-internal-iam}{%
\chapter{Workforce IAM / Internal
IAM}\label{workforce-iam-internal-iam}}

\hypertarget{iam-processes}{%
\section{IAM processes}\label{iam-processes}}

\hypertarget{joiner-mover-leaver}{%
\subsection{Joiner-Mover-Leaver}\label{joiner-mover-leaver}}

\hypertarget{hr-ownership}{%
\subsection{HR ownership}\label{hr-ownership}}

\hypertarget{provisioning-on-boarding-and-off-boarding}{%
\subsection{Provisioning (On-boarding and
Off-boarding)}\label{provisioning-on-boarding-and-off-boarding}}

\hypertarget{handling-business-partners-people}{%
\subsection{Handling Business partners'
people}\label{handling-business-partners-people}}

\hypertarget{re-certification}{%
\subsection{Re-certification}\label{re-certification}}

\hypertarget{analytics-and-intelligence}{%
\section{Analytics and
Intelligence}\label{analytics-and-intelligence}}

\hypertarget{consumercitizen-iam-1}{%
\chapter{Consumer/Citizen IAM}\label{consumercitizen-iam-1}}

\hypertarget{public-sector-vs.private-sector}{%
\section{Public sector vs.~private
sector}\label{public-sector-vs.private-sector}}

\hypertarget{social-media}{%
\section{Social media}\label{social-media}}

\hypertarget{consumer-journey-identification-to-loyal-customer}{%
\section{Consumer journey (identification to loyal
customer)}\label{consumer-journey-identification-to-loyal-customer}}

\hypertarget{registration-of-consumers}{%
\subsection{Registration of
consumers}\label{registration-of-consumers}}

\hypertarget{authentication-assurance-meeting-loa-requiremetns}{%
\subsection{Authentication assurance (meeting LoA
requiremetns)}\label{authentication-assurance-meeting-loa-requiremetns}}

\hypertarget{digital-legacy---handling-deceased-persons-digital-id}{%
\subsection{Digital legacy - handling deceased persons' digital
ID}\label{digital-legacy---handling-deceased-persons-digital-id}}

\hypertarget{self-sovereign-identity}{%
\section{Self-Sovereign Identity}\label{self-sovereign-identity}}

\hypertarget{blockchain-id}{%
\subsection{Blockchain ID}\label{blockchain-id}}

\hypertarget{non-human-entity}{%
\chapter{Non-Human Entity}\label{non-human-entity}}

\hypertarget{operational-technology-ot}{%
\section{Operational Technology
(OT)}\label{operational-technology-ot}}

\hypertarget{iot-devices}{%
\section{IoT devices}\label{iot-devices}}

\hypertarget{iot-sectors}{%
\subsection{IoT Sectors}\label{iot-sectors}}

\hypertarget{home-automation}{%
\subsubsection{Home Automation}\label{home-automation}}

\hypertarget{personal-wearables}{%
\subsubsection{Personal (wearables)}\label{personal-wearables}}

\hypertarget{implants}{%
\subsubsection{Implants}\label{implants}}

\hypertarget{plant-automation}{%
\subsubsection{Plant automation}\label{plant-automation}}

\hypertarget{vehicle}{%
\subsubsection{Vehicle}\label{vehicle}}

\hypertarget{smart-cities}{%
\subsubsection{Smart cities}\label{smart-cities}}

\hypertarget{agricuture}{%
\subsubsection{Agricuture}\label{agricuture}}

\hypertarget{buildiingindustrial}{%
\subsubsection{Buildiing/Industrial}\label{buildiingindustrial}}

\hypertarget{utilities}{%
\subsubsection{Utilities}\label{utilities}}

\hypertarget{rpa-robotics}{%
\section{RPA / robotics}\label{rpa-robotics}}

\hypertarget{security-requirements}{%
\section{Security requirements}\label{security-requirements}}

\hypertarget{iam-architecture-and-solutions}{%
\chapter{IAM Architecture And
Solutions}\label{iam-architecture-and-solutions}}

\hypertarget{business-system}{%
\section{Business System}\label{business-system}}

\hypertarget{business-processes}{%
\subsection{Business Processes}\label{business-processes}}

\hypertarget{provisioning-accounts}{%
\subsubsection{Provisioning accounts}\label{provisioning-accounts}}

\hypertarget{changes-to-accounts}{%
\subsubsection{Changes to accounts}\label{changes-to-accounts}}

\hypertarget{termination-of-accounts}{%
\subsubsection{Termination of accounts}\label{termination-of-accounts}}

\hypertarget{recertification-of-accounts}{%
\subsubsection{Recertification of
accounts}\label{recertification-of-accounts}}

\hypertarget{requirements}{%
\subsection{Requirements}\label{requirements}}

\hypertarget{high-availability-requirement}{%
\subsubsection{High Availability
Requirement}\label{high-availability-requirement}}

\hypertarget{high-performance-requirement}{%
\subsubsection{High Performance
Requirement}\label{high-performance-requirement}}

\hypertarget{auditability}{%
\subsubsection{Auditability}\label{auditability}}

\hypertarget{recoverability}{%
\subsubsection{Recoverability}\label{recoverability}}

\hypertarget{access-control-requirement}{%
\subsubsection{Access Control
Requirement}\label{access-control-requirement}}

\hypertarget{information}{%
\section{Information}\label{information}}

\hypertarget{identifiers-and-credentials}{%
\subsection{Identifiers and
Credentials}\label{identifiers-and-credentials}}

\hypertarget{protection-of-secrets}{%
\subsection{Protection of secrets}\label{protection-of-secrets}}

\hypertarget{data-encoding}{%
\subsubsection{Data Encoding}\label{data-encoding}}

\hypertarget{hashing}{%
\subsubsection{Hashing}\label{hashing}}

\hypertarget{symetric-encryption}{%
\subsubsection{Symetric Encryption}\label{symetric-encryption}}

\hypertarget{asymetric-encryption}{%
\subsubsection{Asymetric Encryption}\label{asymetric-encryption}}

\hypertarget{schemas}{%
\subsection{Schemas}\label{schemas}}

\hypertarget{attributes}{%
\subsubsection{Attributes}\label{attributes}}

\hypertarget{data-types}{%
\subsubsection{Data types}\label{data-types}}

\hypertarget{segmentation}{%
\subsection{Segmentation}\label{segmentation}}

\hypertarget{organizational-units}{%
\subsubsection{Organizational Units}\label{organizational-units}}

\hypertarget{public-key-infrastructure}{%
\subsection{Public Key
Infrastructure}\label{public-key-infrastructure}}

\hypertarget{applications}{%
\section{Applications}\label{applications}}

\hypertarget{consoles}{%
\subsection{Consoles}\label{consoles}}

\hypertarget{command-line}{%
\subsection{Command Line}\label{command-line}}

\hypertarget{approval-workflow}{%
\subsection{Approval workflow}\label{approval-workflow}}

\hypertarget{integration-styles}{%
\subsection{Integration Styles}\label{integration-styles}}

\hypertarget{direct-bind}{%
\subsubsection{Direct ``Bind''}\label{direct-bind}}

\hypertarget{import-users}{%
\subsubsection{Import users}\label{import-users}}

\hypertarget{local-access-control}{%
\paragraph{Local access control}\label{local-access-control}}

\hypertarget{role-based}{%
\subsubsection{Role based}\label{role-based}}

\hypertarget{provisioning}{%
\subsubsection{Provisioning}\label{provisioning}}

\hypertarget{connectors}{%
\paragraph{Connectors}\label{connectors}}

\hypertarget{jit-federation}{%
\paragraph{JIT Federation}\label{jit-federation}}

\hypertarget{devops-considerations}{%
\subsection{DevOps Considerations}\label{devops-considerations}}

\hypertarget{session-management-1}{%
\subsection{Session Management}\label{session-management-1}}

\hypertarget{centralized}{%
\subsubsection{Centralized}\label{centralized}}

\hypertarget{memory-or-db-backed-sso-cookiestokens}{%
\paragraph{Memory or DB backed SSO
Cookies/Tokens)}\label{memory-or-db-backed-sso-cookiestokens}}

\hypertarget{externalized}{%
\subsubsection{Externalized}\label{externalized}}

\hypertarget{jwt-tokens}{%
\paragraph{JWT Tokens}\label{jwt-tokens}}

\hypertarget{none}{%
\subsubsection{None}\label{none}}

\hypertarget{anonymous-only}{%
\paragraph{Anonymous only}\label{anonymous-only}}

\hypertarget{technical}{%
\section{Technical}\label{technical}}

\hypertarget{repositories}{%
\subsection{Repositories}\label{repositories}}

\hypertarget{relational-database}{%
\subsubsection{Relational Database}\label{relational-database}}

\hypertarget{query-optimization}{%
\paragraph{Query optimization}\label{query-optimization}}

\hypertarget{replication-limitations}{%
\paragraph{Replication limitations}\label{replication-limitations}}

\hypertarget{directories}{%
\subsubsection{Directories}\label{directories}}

\hypertarget{historical-note---x.500}{%
\paragraph{Historical note - X.500}\label{historical-note---x.500}}

\hypertarget{slapd-and-its-descendents}{%
\paragraph{SLAPD and its
descendents}\label{slapd-and-its-descendents}}

\hypertarget{partitioning}{%
\paragraph{Partitioning}\label{partitioning}}

\hypertarget{replication-techniques}{%
\paragraph{Replication Techniques}\label{replication-techniques}}

\hypertarget{recovery}{%
\paragraph{Recovery}\label{recovery}}

Local failures

Disaster Recovery

Failover

\hypertarget{audit-and-forensics}{%
\paragraph{Audit and Forensics}\label{audit-and-forensics}}

\hypertarget{inheritance-and-structure}{%
\paragraph{Inheritance and
structure}\label{inheritance-and-structure}}

\hypertarget{ldapv3}{%
\paragraph{LDAPv3}\label{ldapv3}}

Access Control

Configuration for performance

\hypertarget{active-directory}{%
\paragraph{Active Directory}\label{active-directory}}

Multi-Trust Relationships

Domain Controllers

Change tracking (Timestamp)

\hypertarget{nosql-databases}{%
\subsubsection{NOSQL Databases}\label{nosql-databases}}

\hypertarget{distributed-ledger-blockchain}{%
\subsubsection{Distributed Ledger
(Blockchain)}\label{distributed-ledger-blockchain}}

\hypertarget{identity-provider-services}{%
\subsection{Identity Provider
Services}\label{identity-provider-services}}

\hypertarget{protocols}{%
\subsection{Protocols}\label{protocols}}

\hypertarget{kerberos}{%
\subsubsection{Kerberos}\label{kerberos}}

\hypertarget{lightweight-directory-access-protocol-ldap}{%
\subsubsection{Lightweight Directory Access Protocol
(LDAP)}\label{lightweight-directory-access-protocol-ldap}}

\hypertarget{scim}{%
\subsubsection{SCIM}\label{scim}}

\hypertarget{saml}{%
\subsubsection{SAML}\label{saml}}

\hypertarget{sp-initiated-vs-idp-initiated}{%
\paragraph{SP Initiated vs IDP
Initiated}\label{sp-initiated-vs-idp-initiated}}

\hypertarget{bindings}{%
\paragraph{Bindings}\label{bindings}}

\hypertarget{oidc}{%
\subsubsection{OIDC}\label{oidc}}

\hypertarget{authentications-flows}{%
\paragraph{Authentications Flows}\label{authentications-flows}}

\hypertarget{oauth}{%
\subsubsection{OAuth}\label{oauth}}

\hypertarget{ws-fed}{%
\subsubsection{WS-Fed}\label{ws-fed}}

\hypertarget{fido-u2f-and-uaf}{%
\subsubsection{FIDO U2F and UAF}\label{fido-u2f-and-uaf}}

\hypertarget{enterpise-control-of-cloud}{%
\subsection{Enterpise control of
``Cloud''}\label{enterpise-control-of-cloud}}

\hypertarget{public-cloud-vs-private-cloud}{%
\subsubsection{Public Cloud vs Private
Cloud}\label{public-cloud-vs-private-cloud}}

\hypertarget{local-connectors-and-gateways}{%
\subsubsection{Local Connectors and
Gateways}\label{local-connectors-and-gateways}}

\hypertarget{ipsec-vpn}{%
\subsubsection{IPSec VPN}\label{ipsec-vpn}}

\hypertarget{recommended-practices}{%
\section{Recommended Practices}\label{recommended-practices}}

\hypertarget{design-for-security}{%
\subsection{Design for security}\label{design-for-security}}

\hypertarget{governance-and-administration}{%
\section{Governance and
Administration}\label{governance-and-administration}}

\hypertarget{audit}{%
\subsection{Audit}\label{audit}}

\hypertarget{monitoring}{%
\subsection{Monitoring}\label{monitoring}}

\hypertarget{operational-considerations}{%
\chapter{Operational Considerations}\label{operational-considerations}}

\hypertarget{account-recovery}{%
\section{Account recovery}\label{account-recovery}}

\hypertarget{call-centers}{%
\section{Call centers}\label{call-centers}}

\hypertarget{engagement-of-user-for-their-own-security}{%
\section{Engagement of user for their own
security}\label{engagement-of-user-for-their-own-security}}

\hypertarget{security-events-and-operations}{%
\section{Security events and
operations}\label{security-events-and-operations}}

\hypertarget{project-management}{%
\chapter{Project Management}\label{project-management}}

\hypertarget{new-implementations}{%
\section{New implementations}\label{new-implementations}}

\hypertarget{migration-scenarios}{%
\section{Migration scenario's}\label{migration-scenarios}}

\hypertarget{iam-knowledge-sharing}{%
\chapter{IAM Knowledge Sharing}\label{iam-knowledge-sharing}}

\hypertarget{idpro}{%
\section{IDpro}\label{idpro}}

\hypertarget{gartner}{%
\section{Gartner}\label{gartner}}

\hypertarget{kuppingercole}{%
\section{KuppingerCole}\label{kuppingercole}}

\hypertarget{iiw}{%
\section{IIW}\label{iiw}}

\hypertarget{bibliography}{%
\section{Bibliography}\label{bibliography}}
